# Key Learnings
- Tokenomics design is the art of creating and managing the supply and demand of crypto-assets to achieve sustainable growth and value creation.
- Supply and demand are affected by different mechanisms such as bounding curves, order books, burning, minting, staking, and pre-minted token allocation.
- Network effects, both positive and negative, are crucial for creating and sustaining demand for a token, but they also pose risks of volatility and collapse.
- Revenue generation and real value creation are essential for long-term success and stability of crypto-assets, as tokenomics alone is not enough.
- New mechanisms are needed to reduce volatility, attract new participants, and enhance the utility of tokens.

# Micro-Economics of Supply-Demand

In Crypto, price of assets are adjusted by two mechanisms
1. Through a Bounding Curve [Used by DEXs like Uniswap]
2. Though Order Books [Used by CEX like Binance]

# Mechanisms to Manage Supply of Tokens
1. Minting - release additional tokens in the supply and is primarily used to incentivize adoption
2. Burning - to incentivize a long term increase of value for a project, with no short term effect on the price
3. Fixed Supply - Bitcoin
4. Staking - process of locking tokens for a certain amount of time in order to receive additional financial rewards, reducing selling pressure.

# Bank Run and Pre-Mint Token Allocation

1. Bank Run - if there is not enough liquidity available in the liquidity pool the ratio of token versus stablecoin can become exponentially costly resulting in massive drop in price.
2. Pre-Mint Allocations - they have vesting period or a typical 1-2 years, at the end of vesting period, the investors typically dump all the tokens to the public causing massive drop in token price.

# Network Effects for Crypto

1. Network effects are when the benefit of adding an additional user increases the value for all participants exponentially
2. In the case of Facebook, when users start moving to other platforms, there is no financial loss to the remaining participants, which is not the case for crypto-assets, the loss of participants leads to a loss of financial wealth for the remaining participants which can lead to negative network effects


# Speculator versus Real Users

For any crypto projects, the community is composed of real users and of speculators, more often than not, successful crypto projects can have massive growth due to speculators buying the token only for the wealth generation potential. Compared to any other industry, the crypto-industry is mostly driven by speculators’ behaviors. For example, metaverse projects such as Decentraland have less than 100 players on any given day, yet have a market cap of more than $1B USD, which has been accrued mostly by speculators.

# Revenue Model… not just Tokenomics

The future of crypto-assets has to be built on real revenue generation potential that grows alongside real users, not speculators. There are an increasing number of web3 ventures now incorporating revenue streams supporting their tokenomics, and it needs to become the majority for real sustainability. For examples of revenue models integrated into tokenomics, you may look into a DEX called GMX, where a portion of revenue generated by the exchange is used to financially sustain demand for their token.

# Long term sustained growth is more important overnight success.
